Slices & Spritzers Pizzeria Online Menu

🍕 Project Overview

This is a single-page web application designed as a modern, responsive online menu and ordering interface for a fictional pizzeria, "Slices & Spritzers."

The application focuses on demonstrating frontend functionality, including a working shopping cart with real-time tax calculation.

✨ Key Features

Fully Responsive Design: Optimized for seamless viewing and interaction across mobile, tablet, and desktop devices using Tailwind CSS.

Interactive Menu: Displays signature pizza items with dedicated "Add to Cart" functionality.

Sliding Shopping Cart: A responsive side modal displays cart contents, subtotal, taxes, and the final order total.

Real-time Tax Calculation: The JavaScript logic accurately applies the Ontario Harmonized Sales Tax (HST) of 13% to the subtotal before calculating the final total.

Cart Management: Users can add multiple items and remove individual items directly from the cart.

Smooth Navigation: Scroll links ensure a smooth user experience when navigating between sections.

⚙️ Technologies Used

Technology

Purpose

HTML5

Structure and Semantic Content

Tailwind CSS

Utility-first CSS framework for styling and responsiveness

JavaScript (ES6+)

Frontend logic, DOM manipulation, cart management, and price calculation

Font Awesome

Icons (e.g., shopping cart, close button)

🚀 Getting Started

Since this is a single, self-contained HTML file, running the project is straightforward:

Clone the repository (once uploaded to GitHub) or download the pizza_place.html file.

Open the file (pizza_place.html) directly in any modern web browser.

The application requires no backend, server, or build step. All necessary scripts (Tailwind CSS, Font Awesome, and custom JavaScript) are included directly within the file.

💰 Tax Logic

The JavaScript code includes a constant for the Ontario HST rate and applies it to the cart's subtotal in the updateCartUI function:

// Define the tax rate for Ontario (13% HST)
const ONTARIO_HST_RATE = 0.13;

// ... inside updateCartUI function
const tax = subtotal * ONTARIO_HST_RATE;
const finalTotal = subtotal + tax;


This ensures all prices displayed in the final total are inclusive of the mandatory provincial tax.
